To convert an existing Java project over to be a Maven project inside of Spring
STS, it's actually quite easy. Before I dive into it though, I want you to look
at the two icons associated with these projects.
So I have this sample project Foo that I've created, that's
just a basic Java project, and then I have our HelloWorld
project that we imported previously.
Notice the icon in the upper‑left hand corner of
HelloWorld has a little m next to it, signifying that it is a Maven project.
The Java project does not have that yet.
Now to convert this, I have created a basic POM file inside of here,
and I've added some simple information to it, our groupId,
our artifactId, version, and then our packaging type.
Now, our POM for our HelloWorld application has a lot more, but there's
nothing in our project Foo just yet. So to convert this,
I want to right‑click on it, and go to Configure, and Convert to Maven Project.
You're going to see that the progress bar down below goes through and downloads
any dependencies that we need, and those types of things, and goes ahead and
converts our project over to being a Maven project once it's done building
everything. Now that this is done though,
there are a couple of things inside of here worth mentioning.
It's now set the default as Java 1.5, which that's not
even a supportive environment anymore.
And we have a target directory and a BIN directory hanging
out here as well, and our src directory.
So we probably ought to go ahead and do what we learned earlier
with the build version, and open up our POM, and add a build
section for the Compiler Plugin.
So I'm going to go ahead and grab that build plugin plugin for the compiler.
I want to go ahead and open up our other POM, and
add that section in there as well.
Now I do need to close off our plugins element, and close
off our build element, and save that.
And now we want to go up to our project, and right‑click
on it, and say Maven, Update Project, click OK,
and you can see that it bumped up our build version to Java SE11.
So now that we have that all compiling the way that we expect it to, it'll act a little bit better for us.